Israel's security cabinet has met amid
growing fears of an escalation of the
conflict along the Israel Lebanon border
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu called
the meeting to discuss expanding their
response to Saturday's deadly rocket
strike on the Israeli occupied Golan
Heights let's get some context on this
from military analyst Frank ledwich
Frank good to see you almost a day later
we've still got conflicting accounts
about what has happened here Israel
saying it has evidence that Hezbollah
carried out the attack but Hezbollah
denying any involvement when you look at
this case could you talk us through
which scenarios seem
likely good evening CLA there are a
number of strange issues about this this
attack first of all as you saw in the
report it's the Drews community that
received it secondly it's in the Gan
Heights or the Jalan as they call it on
the Syrian side and it's internationally
Syrian
territory uh similarly on the Israeli
side
it's difficult to see any alternative
than this being a hes attack the only
possible attack I can or the only other
possible explanation I can think of it's
a an anti-aircraft missile going AR but
I don't think that squares with the
evidence we've seen so uh conceivably
perhaps a rogue group or some form of
accidental targeting um either way we
see a mass casualty event and the
possibility now of of some degree of
escalation as I said it is the first
time that Hezbollah has Den denied an
attack of the many hundreds of attacks
they've made on Israel over the past few
months which which says something I
suppose but it's a mystery no question
about it indeed as you say either way
Israel has vowed to strike back hard
against Hezbollah what do you expect
that this might look
like well you saw then some there some
air strikes or some footage of air
strikes and that's been going on now
that kind of activity for the last uh
well nearly a year isn't it now it's
nine months or so and Israeli sources
have told me that they have killed about
a quarter of senior HB Hezbollah
leadership in strikes like that so the
kind of escalation we're likely to see I
think is not mass escalation we're not I
don't think we're going to see a huge
War erupt over this for the simple
reason that it's in neither side's
interests and on neither side would such
a war have support but what we will see
is an increase in rhetoric and in the
scale and intensity of Israeli air
attacks must be remembered that a large
proportion on the other hand of is the
Israeli armed forces are deployed to the
northern border and have no doubt at all
that at very short notice they could
they could conduct major operations in
southern Lebanon but that would be
disastrous and catastrophic I think for
all sides and all sides know it so if it
is in neither Sid's interests as you say
I'm curious why you think we are now in
response to this specific attack seeing
Israel vowing such a quick and and hard
retaliation against
Hezbollah no there'll be a quick and
hard retaliation but I don't think it'll
take the form of the kind of attack we
saw in in early earlier in the century
in 2006 where for armed divisions
entered the country although the
Israelis could certainly do that what
we'll see is an increase in int
intensity on attacks on pre pre
pre-targeted or pre-identified targets
such as commanders and most importantly
missile launching sites and we we we
have to remember the Israelis have been
identifying these sites now for for
nearly well certainly 15 years they're
they're fully aware of where many of
them are and the main threat posed by
Hezbollah isn't the 50,000 or so troops
that they have well trained and
experienced though they are it's the
missile Force they can deploy which the
Israelis acknowledge that would cause
major casualties in Israel work to be
deployed but it's essentially a One-Shot
deal for hesah and they know that too so
yeah we'll see a continuing attacks on
high value targets and missile sites but
not I think a huge intervention such as
the kind we've seen early earlier in the
century